docs: add documentation for svelte.dev (#31)
sveltejs/mcp: documentation/docs/10-introduction/10-overview.md

---
title: Overview
---

> The official Svelte MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server can help your LLM or Agent of choice write better Svelte code by providing it with documentation and tools to get suggestions on the generated code based on static analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Svelte MCP ([Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro)) server can help your LLM or agent of choice write better Svelte code. It works by providing documentation relevant to the task at hand, and statically analysing generated code so that it can suggest fixes and best practices.
```

## Setup

> The setup differs based on the version of the MCP you prefer (either remote or local) and the MCP client of your choice (e.g. Claude Code, Codex CLI, GitHub Copilot etc.). Refer to our documentation to learn how to set those up [locally](./local-setup) and [remotely](./remote-setup) for the most common clients.

Reviewer: I think it would be good if https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp had some minimal content, just to say (paraphrasing) 'this is meant for robots, not you, here's where to go for setup instructions'

```suggestion
The setup varies based on the version of the MCP you prefer — remote or local — and your chosen MCP client (e.g. Claude Code, Codex CLI or GitHub Copilot):

- [local setup](local-setup) using `@sveltejs/mcp`
- [remote setup](remote-setup) using mcp.svelte.dev/mcp
```

Author: The plan is to redirect to the docs if you open it in the browser but I was waiting for the docs to be merged.

## Usage

To get the most out of the MCP we recommend including the following prompt in your `AGENTS.md` or `CLAUDE.md`. This will instruct the LLM on what's available and when it's appropriate to use the MCP.

```md
You are able to use the Svelte MCP server, where you have access to comprehensive Svelte 5 and SvelteKit documentation. Here's how to use the available tools effectively:

## Available MCP Tools:

### 1. list-sections

> Use this FIRST to discover all available documentation sections. Returns a structured list with titles, use_cases, and paths.

Reviewer: do we definitely want to include the `use_cases` stuff given that it doesn't yet exist? will that confuse it (e.g. when it says 'especially the `use_cases` field')?

Author: @khromov also opened a PR here to generate the `use_cases` in the repo and i think it would be good for the LLM for sure...so either we have it in the actual docs or only in the mcp we will have it. But we can include it only when we merge the PR

Reviewer: ah okay, i missed #29 — i think i like that approach
